It’s the boy spouting wisdom on a bus. The argument overheard at last night’s game. The stranger with the look or one-liner that perfectly captures a memorable moment in a particular place.

The New York Times has been collecting these kinds of vignettes from its readers since 1976 with a feature called Metropolitan Diary — a beloved crowdsourced collection that reveals the character of one specific place: New York City.

But why stop there?

Now that we’ve opened a bureau here in Australia, we’re asking readers in this country to share their own little revealing moments with us, and each other.

We’ll be sharing a batch of entries each week through at least the end of the Australian summer — and we’d love to hear from you.

If you have a story or poem, photo, video, or a drawing that says something about your own slice of Australia — from its urban centers to its suburbs and small towns — please send it to us at: nytaustralia@nytimes.com.

If your entry is accepted, an editor will be in touch to verify your story. If we publish your submission, we’ll send you a small gift to go along with your New York Times byline.

But for now, enjoy what we’ve collected so far.

It was a hot summer morning in Sydney, and I was behind the wheel, stuck in gridlocked traffic approaching the Anzac Bridge.

Looking around in resignation, I saw a small car full of young guys heading in the opposite direction, just a few meters in front me of me. On closer inspection, I noticed they were laughing and gesticulating in my direction, talking and shaking their heads.

After a couple of minutes, the young man in the passenger seat gave a shrug and opened his car door. He hopped over the median and headed in my direction. I was a good 20 years older than him, so I knew he wasn’t about to ask for my number.

He approached my car, leaned in close, and with a flourish swept the most enormous huntsman spider I had ever seen from my roof.

With a gigantic smile he bowed in my direction, before running back to his friends.

Sunrise in the suburbs —

apprentice

travels from afar.

Moon over the factories —

old man

trudges back to car.

We want your stories too… or songs, or pictures, or poems or videos. Share your Australia story by emailing: nytaustralia@nytimes.com. Bookmark the Australia Diary collection for future installments.