Mr. Puigdemont and other separatist politicians are still trying to run in the elections — some from abroad, some from jail and some while out on bail.

One of the politicians ordered kept in jail was Oriol Junqueras, was ousted as Mr. Puigdemont’s deputy and is the leader of the region’s main left-wing separatist party.

The judge in the case, Pablo Llarena of the Supreme Court, declined to set bail for Mr. Junqueras ruling that, while there was no risk he would flee, there was a risk he might continue to break the law.

The same went for Joaquim Forn, the former regional interior minister, the judge ruled. Both men will remain in jail, pending their trial on charges of rebellion for declaring the region’s independence in October.

The leaders of two organizations that support the independence bid were also ordered to remain in custody, with the judge saying they might provoke more violence in Catalonia.

On the other hand, Judge Llarena set bail at 100,000 euros, or about $119,000, for six other former members of the regional government.

“It is a huge anomaly in the democratic world that people elected democratically are suffering prison,” Joan Tardá, a lawmaker from the separatist party Esquerra Republicana, told reporters.

Juan Ignacio Zoido, the Spanish interior minister, defended the Supreme Court decision and also expressed confidence that the Belgian judiciary would eventually hand over Mr. Puigdemont.

Mr. Zoido firmly rejected separatist claims that Mr. Junqueras and others should be considered to be political prisoners. “They are politicians who are imprisoned because they have committed very serious crimes,” he told reporters on Monday.

Two of the separatist leaders were jailed by a different Spanish judge in mid-October for orchestrating a protest in September against Spanish police officers who had raided a Catalan government building and detained some officials.

For the past six years, Mr. Junqueras has led Esquerra Republicana, a left-wing party that has been at the heart of the separatist coalition governing Catalonia.

The Supreme Court took over the case of Mr. Junqueras and the other separatist leaders after they were jailed without bail by a judge on the National Court, the country’s highest criminal court.

Most Catalan separatist politicians have recently softened their positions, recognizing Mr. Rajoy’s right to impose direct rule on the region, which he did on Oct. 27 after separatist lawmakers voted for independence.

Separatists, including Mr. Puigdemont, the former Catalan leader, have argued that Spain’s judiciary jailed Catalan leaders unjustifiably on political grounds.

Since late October, Mr. Puigdemont has been in Brussels, where he is fighting possible extradition and planning his candidacy in the new elections. He has refused to return to Spain, asserting that he could not receive a fair trial there.

Even if the Belgian judge rules against Mr. Puigdemont and his former colleagues on Dec. 14, they could still appeal the decision.

Mr. Puigdemont’s lawyer told the Belgian news media on Saturday that the five former Catalan ministers were likely to stay in Belgium until after the Catalan elections on Dec. 21, and possibly even until mid-January.

In all, the Spanish attorney general wants to prosecute 20 Catalan politicians for rebellion, sedition and the misuse of public funds to organize the independence referendum on Oct. 1. That vote had been declared illegal by the Spanish government and courts.

If found guilty of rebellion, Mr. Puigdemont, Mr. Junqueras and the others could face up to 30 years in prison.

The most recent opinion polls suggest that neither side will secure a decisive victory on Dec. 21.

Ciudadanos, a party firmly opposed to secession, is likely to win the most votes, according to an opinion poll released on Monday by the Center for Sociology Research. But it appear unlikely to get enough of a margin to form a governing coalition with other unionist lawmakers, particularly as Mr. Rajoy’s Popular Party is forecast to suffer a slump in votes. The poll, on the other hand, also showed separatist parties narrowly losing the parliamentary majority that they won in 2015.