Ms. Mogherini also warned the United States not to walk away from the Iran nuclear deal, something President Trump has said he may do.

“The continued implementation of the Iran nuclear deal is a key strategic priority for European security but also for regional and global security,” she said.

“Allies have been very frank today in sharing some of their views,” Mr. Hammond said.

Ms. Mogherini’s remarks came just hours after Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel of Germany declared at a foreign policy conference in Berlin that relations with the United States “will never be the same” and said that the Trump administration increasingly viewed Europe as a “competitor or economic rival” rather than an ally.

On Monday, President Emmanuel Macron of France warned Mr. Trump in a phone call that recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel was a bad idea, joining leaders from Jordan, Egypt, Turkey and the Arab League in speaking out publicly against the move.

Mr. Trump’s nationalistic rhetoric and frequent complaints about what he sees as European freeloading on American military spending has long grated on European leaders, but in recent weeks their annoyance has turned to anger.

When Mr. Tillerson and Ms. Mogherini gave public statements, Ms. Mogherini never smiled and she refused to answer questions.

Into this growing rift the Trump administration sent a chief diplomat who could be pushed out within weeks and has little of the president’s confidence, according to senior administration officials.

For his part, Mr. Tillerson stood beside Ms. Mogherini and offered innocuous comments in which he reaffirmed “the important role that the European alliance plays in our shared security objectives.”

Mr. Tillerson spoke at far greater length in a morning visit to the United States Embassy in Brussels but spent most of his time describing his departmental reorganization effort, not addressing the growing diplomatic challenges his employees face in Europe and elsewhere.

He admitted that the Trump administration had yet to notch a single major diplomatic victory.

“While we don’t have any wins on the board yet, I can tell you we’re in much better position to advance America’s interests around the world than we were 10 months ago,” Mr. Tillerson said.

He promised to announce his reorganization plans within weeks and grew animated when describing the process. Mr. Tillerson made the remarks at the ambassadorial residence, which is not presently occupied because the administration has yet to nominate an ambassador to Belgium.

From Brussels, Mr. Tillerson heads to Vienna, where three ambassadorial jobs — to Austria and two European bodies — also remain unfilled. Dozens of top jobs in the department are empty.

“We’re still awaiting a lot of nominees to clear the processes and be confirmed,” he told the gathering. “I get a little criticism for that from time to time.”

Mr. Tillerson’s own delays in identifying leaders also has been a big obstacle. Now that he may leave within weeks, the White House vetting process for his choices has slowed to a crawl.